+++
date = '2025-02-08T11:15:01-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'FoxLang'
author = 'Lucy the Foxxo'
+++

Hello!

I would like to informally introduce FoxLang to the world! (I'll actually introduce it later). It's a programming language that I've been working on during my spare time. It is very early in the development, but this has been what is consuming almost all of the time I spend programming, so I decided that it was fine to write about.

You can find the code <a href="https://github.com/rdstudios9145/foxlang">here, on my github</a>. I have mostly finished the AST (with the exception of unnecessary things like structs), and I am going to start writing the interpreter part. Im planning to eventually make it compiled, with LLVM as the backend, but that is probably pretty far in the future.

There are two reasons that I am making my own language:

 - __*I saw a problem*__. Too many programmers are arguing about whether to use spaces or tabs for indentation, something that can easily be fixed by finding a specific character and completely designate it to indentation [^1]. For this, I selected the fox emoji (it's called FoxLang, after all) 

 - __*It's what I do*__. The most interesting parts of programming are the ones that go deep (*hehe*[^2]). That's the same reason I tried making my own OS a while back. It's the reason I made my own package manager (with a friend). The most fun and interesting projects to make are the ones that are most fundamental to how we program. (I do not see myself writing my own emacs for a *very* long time).

Im planning to make it a mish-mash of a bunch of languages, including rust and c++. I've also heard good things about C# and go, so I'll probably also look into those.

While you are here, please enjoy some (*very* subject to change) syntax snippets (also the first ever released to the public)

```fox
fn add(a int, b int) {
return a + b;
}

fn main() int {
let out int = add(1, 2)
return add(out, 5) / 2;
}
```

## Footnotes

[^1]: You can thank [Acegikmo](https://acegikmo.com) (Freya Holm矇r) for this idea, it was discussed during one of her streams
[^2]: I'm still a child, after all
